---
title: "Animated PNG"
date: 2024-04-09 00:20:18 +0800
category: FileFormatResearch
tags: Pixel-Image-File
header:
  teaser: https://cia.imgix.net/files/blog/full/firefoxlogogifvspng.jpg
---

## Basic Information

Parent Format: Portable Network Graphics

MIME Name: image/apng

Suffix： `.apng`

Openness: 🆓📖

Related Sites:

* [APNG Specification](https://wiki.mozilla.org/APNG_Specification)

## Information

An animated image format based on PNG extension. It can replace GIF in animation representation.

There is a certain overlap between animations and videos, and logically they are the same thing. However, there are still differences between the two in terms of implementation technology and practical uses.

In terms of implementation technology, animated pictures add simple multi-frame storage and playback control based on picture storage. Although video is also based on image preservation and compression mechanisms, it pays more attention to time flow control and inter-frame compression.

From a usage perspective, videos can be combined with audio tracks to synthesize audio and video, while animated images generally do not have audio tracks. In terms of length, the video can be short or very long, but the length of the animation is generally very short. In addition, in terms of playback support, it is relatively simple to add animation support to a platform that supports graphic display, and the animation can be played directly and automatically in a loop. However, introducing video is much more complicated, and generally requires a corresponding playback window.
