---
title: "GNU Moe"
date: 2024-04-07 12:25:20 +0800
category: SoftwareResearch
tags: Text-Editor TUI Wikipedia
header:
  teaser: https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/7/78/Formules.JPG
---

## Basic Information

System: ðŸ§

Openness: ðŸ†“ðŸ“–

Related Sites:

* [GNU: Moe](https://www.gnu.org/software/moe/moe.html)

## Introduction

GNU Moe is a text editor. It is part of the GNU Project. Like GNU Emacs or GNU Nano, it is a WYTIWYG (what you type is what you get) mode-less editor.

It is much less well-known than GNU Emacs and GNU Nano. But it still has some creativity in its design. It tries to rationalize the keyboard commands. Its editing commands are divided into move, modify, and completion. These categories correspond to Alt, Control and Tab related shortcut keys respectively. This is worth learning from for the current shortcut key layout design.

Its main limitation is that it only supports ASCII and ISO-8859. This means that it cannot properly edit text in Unicode-related encodings.

> While writing this article I discovered that there is no Wikipedia page about this software. So I submitted a page about GNU Moe to Wikipedia. It has declined. Maybe it's because my writing skills are insufficient. But the comment of the reviewer is pretty ridiculous. The first is a requirement to add more "reliable resources".
>
> I quoted GNU Moe's official website in reference. There are detailed software documents and source code download addresses on its official website. I don't know what is more reliable than the official website for a software.
>
> Judging from the reviewer's personal homepage, the reviewer's professional field is history. And this is a software entry. Wikipedia is such an amazing place. Editors from other specialized fields are free to comment on articles in non-specialized fields and give empty, unconstructive comments.
>
> I don't think the reviewer himself would like his history paper to be sent to a physicist for review. Not to mention the opinion of physicists is to add more mathematical formulas. Of course he thought my analogy to his noble field of expertise was "nonsensical and unproductive".
>
> So be it, Wikipedia has become just another self-centered bureaucracy. Any reviewer has the power to define "nonsensical and unproductive". I sincerely hope that reviewer enjoys his little dictatorial arbitrary power.
>
> Another kind editor told me that this software does exist. All I need to do is showing that it's notable enough to be included in a worldwide encyclopedia. However, I have no plans to contribute any more of my precious spare time to Wikipedia. This incident also made me re-evaluate the credibility and value behind Wikipedia articles. I will use them more cautiously in the future. After all, who will review these reviewers?
